This is where to find information on contributing to pk-gov, whether it's recommended practices, structure of the codebase or general guidelines on workflows.

## npm scripts

(NOTE: there are some other npm scripts in this project not listed here, those are leftover from the template repo this repo was created from!)

- `npm run start` starts the dev server (opens on port 3000 by default)
- `npm run cleanup` runs ESLint and Prettier
- `npm run test` runs jest tests (currently there are no tests)
- `npm run build` builds the website to dist/ (this is the script used for deploying to Render)

## General workflow

This is the workflow for contributing to this repo:

1. Clone/fork the repo to your local machine
2. `git pull origin main` to ensure your code is up to date
3. `git checkout -b your-branch-name` to make a branch for the feature/fix you want to contribute (please give it a clear name to avoid confusion, we suggest naming it directly after your intended feature/fix)
4. Work on your code! Remember to commit often and write clear commit messages! Feel free to push your code up to GitHub with `git push origin your-branch-name` whenever you want
5. Once you're done, push your code up to GitHub with `git push origin your-branch-name`
6. On GitHub, you may see a banner asking you to open a new Pull Request (PR). If not, go to the 'Pull requests' tab and select 'New pull request'
7. Write about what you're contributing and send it up for review.
8. We will review your PR. If it's all good, your PR will be approved and merged! If not, we'll suggest any changes needed.
9. Once your PR is merged, delete the branch you made on your local machine (we'll handle deleting it on GitHub if you forget!), to ensure your local repo is clean and ready the next time you want to contribute!

## pk-gov Tech Stack 

- Vanilla JS and CSS are used, no frameworks or anything (for now)
- 11ty is used to generate most (but not all!) pages on this website, for more information refer to the 'Using 11ty' section below
- For pages that don't use 11ty, we use vanilla HTML
- Webpack is used to minify code 
- ESLint and Prettier are in use to ensure code style remains consistent
- lottie-web is used for the ministry animations (all other animations are made using only CSS)

## Structure of this website
The general file structure and structure of the webiste will be listed here. In most cases, you should only be touching stuff in the `src/` folder. Everything outside of that is for dependencies and other dev tools. For all pages, the .html files are located together with their .js files, while ALL CSS files are located in `assets/styles/` (This may be confusing, we know. It may be simplified/fixed in the future). In consideration of this, whenever we mention where 'pages' are located, their corresponding .js files will be located at the same place too!

### _includes/

This is where 11ty templates which are used more than once (such as info pages and news articles) are located.

### about/

This is where the 'about pk-gov' and 'government identity guidelines pages are located. Any assets they use are taken directly from `assets/`. The pages here DO NOT use 11ty.

### assets/

This is where 'universal' assets like fonts and `global.css`, as well as assets used by vanilla HTML files (ones not generated by 11ty) are stored.

- `fonts/` is where the font files are stored
- `lottie/` is where the lottie animations used by the ministry pages are stored
- `pictures/` is where all pictures used by vanilla HTML files are stored. Currently, only minister pictures are here, but they are kept in a `ministers/` folder in preparation for any other categories
- `styles/` is where all .css files are stored, including `global.css`, which loads the custom fonts from `fonts/` and 'resets' some default css styling

### info/

This is where the 'life in the plushie kingdom' pages are located. Any assets they use (such as photos) are taken from `info-media/`, located within this folder. Within `info-media/`, there should be a folder for each info page that uses media, named the same name as their corresponding .md file. All pages are generated with 11ty, so there is a template file provided. 

### ministries/

This is where all the ministry pages (the icons in the homepage) are located. Any assets they use are taken directly from `assets/`. The pages here DO NOT use 11ty.

### news/

This is where the 'government news' pages are located. Any assets they use (such as photos) are taken from `news-media/`, located within this folder. Within `news-media/`, there should be a folder for each news article that uses media, named the same name as their corresponding .md file. All thumbnails MUST be named `thumbnail`, any extension is fine (but we recommend .webp). All pages are generated with 11ty, so there is a template file provided. 

### root (src/)

In the root of `src/`, `index.html` is the file for the homepage, and `home.js` is its script file. The homepage's CSS file is also named `home.css`. Any assets it uses are taken directly from `assets/`. The homepage DOES NOT use 11ty.

## Using 11ty

pk-gov uses 11ty to generate most of its pages, as it enables faster page creation and template layouts. Here's how we use it and how it works.

- for pages that are only 'generated' once, such as the news homepage, there is an `index.njk` file where the 'index.html' file would be
- for pages that are generated multiple times, such as news articles, there is a .njk template file located in `_includes/`
- njk = Nunjucks, a templating language that allows for some dynamic content in pages (that's mainly what we use it for, for more details you can check out the documentation)
- Pages that use a template from `_includes` are written using Markdown (.md). This enables easier writing compared to writing actual HTML (search for a markdown cheat sheet to know the syntax if you're unfamiliar)
- Content from those .md pages are dynamically 'filled in' to replace `{{ content | safe }}` in the .njk template
